---
title: Thank you
slug: thank-you
date: 2015-11-23
tags: #medium, #jay-schulman
draft: true
---

As we start the Thanksgiving season in the United States, I thought it would be a good time to thank you. Without you, this will be a lonely hobby.

In thinking about who to thank, I went back and looked at all of the analytics so far in 2015. Thousands of people (and probably a bot or two) read this site weekly. As I’ve looked through the numbers, a few metrics stood out:

#### What’s your Gender?

Wow. Only 11% of my readers are female. It’s a good thing I do a lot of women in technology posts. ([here](https://www.jayschulman.com/3-infosec-women-on-women-in-security/) and [here](https://www.jayschulman.com/more-advice-on-growing-women-in-security/)) I definitely knew I would trend predominantly male, but this was a pretty big surprise for me.

#### Where are you?

This isn’t so surprising. My [book](https://www.jayschulman.com/go/book/) sells pretty well in India, UK and Australia so that matches the readership here. Note Russia at #8 — that’s a recent phenomenon in the last few months. Russia is actually #4 since the summer. While a great number of you are in the United States, I make a concerted effort not to be too US centric (even though this is kind of a Thanksgiving post).

#### How Old Are You?

This matches everything I’ve assumed going in. Most of you are already working somewhere. There are definitely a lot of you transitioning into security from somewhere else. It’s generally a pretty good bell curve although I don’t know where all of the 45 to 54 years olds went.

#### What Operating System Do You Use?

Two things jumped out at me. Apple being the number 1 operating system and Linux making a strong showing here. Apple beating out Android was a bit of a surprise for me until I looked at the podcast statistics which are overwhelmingly Apple. By a mile.

#### What do you like?

So every post has to have something educational to it. This is where I try to teach something. Notice up in the right corner of the imagine. 60% of total sessions. That’s because only 60% of sessions could Google match up the user to their profile. It may be that they opted out of Google analytics (something security people would probably do). It may also be that on mobile devices — with the plethora of apps — it can be difficult to connect users to their profiles.

Regardless, it’s interesting what you can find about people by placing a cookie on their computer. So obviously most of you are probably technophiles. It would be odd if you weren’t. Any of these sound like you? I know I’m a News Junkie (although not of celebrity news). There are about a dozen different ways to pull information like this from my site. Obviously Google is trying to understand the users who view my site and how to best advertise to them. As an added bonus, they share some of that with me.

#### Thank you

I spend time each week writing in the hopes of helping others. To me it’s a form of volunteerism. And it’s desperately needed in the information security field. I’ll keep doing it if you keep reading.

Thanks once again and for those in the United States, have a Happy Thanksgiving.
